now let's talk about props and Snippets
in detail in previous part we talked
about export and slots in components
however in spelt 5 both export and Slots
are deprecated in spelt 5 export
variables were replaced with props rune
for type safe declarative props and
Slots were replaced with Snippets which
are reusable blocks of markup so let's
talk about prop Rune first props are
short for properties props are a way for
parent components to send data to child
components in spelt 5 the props Rune
replaces spelt 4's export keyword making
prop declarations more explicit and type
safe props ensure that components can
receive Dynamic data from their parents
enabling reusability for example a
button component might accept a color
prop to customize its appearance or a
user card might take a name and age to
display user details with typescript
integration props now enforce strict
data types
this means you define exactly what type
of data a component expects like strings
numbers arrays and spelt five will throw
errors during compilation if the wrong
type is passed props can also have
default values allowing components to
work even if the parent doesn't provide
specific data this is especially useful
for optional props like error messages
or placeholder text now let's understand
it with code example first create the
child component inside components folder
then create script tag and set it as
type to type script inside it create two
constant properties named title and
price and provide default value to title
property and initialize it with props
Rune you can use it just like this but
right now it's not type safe to enhance
type safety add generic type block and
curly brackets before parenthesis inside
it make title nullable and set it to
string data type and set data type of
price to number then in template create
d block and inside it display title and
price now go to main page in script
block import child
component then in template use child
component right now it's asking for
Price only because title is nullable
property while price property is the
required one so use title and price
properties to pass title and price to it
it we have to provide value of price
wrapped in curly brackets then create
few more products using this child
component also create one product
without
title now run the app to see results
here we are able to see the products
along with the prices also last product
shows undefined title because we did not
pass title value to component and as
undefined is the default value of the
title property it used its default value
with this props are complete now let's
talk about Snippets Snippets replace
spelt fors slots and allow parents to
pass reusable markup blocks to Children
unlike slots Snippets can receive
parameters from the child component
enabling Dynamic content for example a
card component might let the parent
Define a header but the child could pass
a subtitle to that header Snippets can
be created and used on the same page as
well as can be passed to child from
parent component to pass Snippets to
child components the props Rune is used
along with the snippet type this makes
them type safe and explicit parents
Define Snippets using the snippet block
and children render them with render tag
this pattern is ideal for complex uis
like dashboards where a parent might
control the layout while the child
handles data rendering let's understand
it with code examples first let's see on
page Snippets to create create on page
Snippets first we put curly braces and
Define snippet with hashtag and then
give this snippet a name I'll call it
greetings inside it display hello world
message now run the program right now
there's nothing on the screen because we
created the snippet but did not render
it we need to render the Snippets to
display them for that create render tag
using curly braces along with the at
sign and pass the snippet's name which
you want to render in our case we want
to render greeting snippet now let's see
the output now we are able to see the
hello world message now let's see how to
pass parameters to Snippets Snippets can
take parameters too for example create a
string type variable name inside snippet
requires string type parameter named
person name now we can see the error in
render tag because it expecting a
parameter now so pass this name variable
to it
inside it greet this person using the
parameter let's see the result now now
we are able to see the hello John
message we can also pass name directly
in string format as parameter type is
string and result updated according to
the new value now let's learn to pass
Snippets to components we can pass
Snippets to components like we pass the
props let's understand it with a code
example first create a custom button
component inside it create script
tag then import snippet type from
spelt create a button property and set
it to a prop then use props generic type
and make button property nullable and
set its type to snippet type snippet
type means that this property will take
Snippets here we passed empty array to
snippet because we don't require any
parameters right now we'll learn about
these in a few moments then in template
use if block to check if button snippet
exists inside it use render tag to
render the button snippet now open main
page then import button from Custom
button
component inside template use button
component and inside it create snippet
and set its name to button one thing to
note here that snippet name and the
property name inside the component must
be same then inside it create a submit
button and pass some Tailwind
classes now run the app to see the
result and button is displaying
here another thing we can render
multiple buttons in this snippet and not
only buttons we can also render
paragraphs or any element like
this and now we can see two button and a
paragraph now let's learn how to pass
parameter along with Snippets to
components now let's build a component
where the child provides default
parameters first create a component
named
header then create script tag and import
snippet type from
spelt then create a header property and
make it a prop then inside generic type
set header type to snippet now inside
array of snippet we can pass Properties
or parameters so pass title and sub sub
title properties of string type then in
template use if statement to check if
header snippet is available inside it
render header snippet and inside it set
default values of title and
subtitle now open main page import
header from header
component inside template use header
component here we can see the error
stating that header property is missing
so create a snippet name header inside
it now now the error is gone as spelt
automatically picked up the header
snippet as header property now if we
hover over header snippet we can see
that it has two parameters which we can
use so declare these parameters here to
use these inside it create heading using
title parameter and paragraph using
subtitle parameter let's see the result
now here we can see the output with
default values which we provided while
rendering the snippet inside component
now let's learn to pass data to Snippets
through props in last section we learned
about parameters which uses default
values however there are many scenarios
where we want to send data to components
from parent so now let's learn this with
code example to do so we'll modify this
header component a little bit first add
two properties with same name as the
snippet parameters so we'll add title
and subtitle properties then we'll set
the types in the props generic
type then pass these properties to
header snippet in render tag instead of
default values this way spelt will
automatically take the value of title
and subtitle and assign these to the
corresponding snippet parameters now go
to main page here we can see the error
in header component which states that
title and subtitle parameters are
missing so utilize these parameters and
pass required value to these now let's
see the results
here we can see the updated values of
both parameters this way we can send
data to components through props with
this props and Snippets are complete